ROMBLDR documentation

The ROMBLDR program is provided AS-IS. No support will be provided by
VAutomation. However, the source code is available on our web site
at HTTP://www.vautomation.com/free/free.htm. The source code is
ANSI C and has been compiled on SUNs and PCs.

The ROMBLDR program reads in an Intel Hex format file and produces
a Xilinx 4000 FPGA ROM of the same size. The ROM must be 8 bits
wide and can be up to 4K bytes deep.

The ROM is built using 32:1 ROMs in one CLB for the base memory element.
These are in turn connected to TBUFs with a decoder to enable only the
selected cell. The ROM_ENB signal is added to the equation for the
TBUF enable to help keep power consumption down. This ROM structure is
optimal for > 128 byte ROMs in both performance and density. However,
there is a possibility of tristate contention when the upper address
bits are switching. To minimize the contention, a ROM_ENB signal is 
provided when can be used to turn off all of the TBUF when the ROM
is not active, or can be used to disable all TBUFs for a short time
while the address lines are settling.

The ROM CLBs and the upper address decoders are RLOCed into a 
grid with one data bit per ROW. We've found that this results in a dense
ROM with good performance. PAR tends to route the lower address bits 
through BUFGs. The TBUFs cannot easily be RLOCed due to limitations in
the M1 tools and thus they do occasionally move away from their desired
location next to the ROM CLB.

To run the program:

rombldr <intel_hex_file.ihx> > rom.xnf

ROMBLDR then outputs a Xilinx XNF file on stdout which is typically
redirected to a file.

The ROM has the following connections:
addr[12:0] 	- IN - address bus - see Note 1 below
rom_enb		- IN - ROM tristate enable
ROM_OUT[7:0]	- OUT- ROM data out

Note 1: Some of the upper address lines are not needed if the ROM is smaller than
4K bytes. 

This program was developed by VAutomation to meet our specific needs.
Feel free to make enhancements to the code but please return a copy to us.

Some future enhancements might include:
1) Add self-timed logic to force all TBUFs into tristate while the addr bus
   is switching. (the trick is to not incurr lots of delay on the enable)
2) Allow each data bit to occupy 2 or more rows (IE: allow the ROM to
   be "folded"). Large ROMs tend to be wide but thin.
3) Support larger ROMs. (4K is the practical limit for todays devices).
